---
layout: default
title: Literature Review
parent: § Reskilling and Upskilling - To Stay Relevant in Today’s Industry  
grand_parent: R 
nav_order: 30 
---
<style>
.dont-break-out {
  /* These are technically the same, but use both */
  overflow-wrap: break-word;
  word-wrap: break-word;

     -ms-word-break: break-all;
  /* This is the dangerous one in WebKit, as it breaks things wherever */
  word-break: break-all;
  /* Instead use this non-standard one: */
  word-break: break-word;
}

.youtube-container {
    position: relative;
    width: 100%;
    height: 0;
    padding-bottom: 56.25%;
}
.youtube-video {
    position: absolute;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
}

</style>

<div class="dont-break-out" markdown="1">

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Literature Review
To be simply put, reskilling can be defined as the process of learning or teaching an individual an entirely new skill in order to move to another area that demands new skills and resources whereas upskilling is the process of providing someone such as an employee with more advanced abilities, through more education and training. As a result, the group gains greater experience, knowledge, and a higher level of productivity. Leading companies are putting a lot of emphasis on upskilling sessions, training modules, and short-term courses these days to improve their employees' abilities and performance. Upskilling refers to a constant and indefinite learning process; nevertheless, there may come a time when it is necessary to pursue new process training, new subjects, and disciplines, which leads to Reskilling which causes one to learn new abilities while forgetting previous ones. It's the equivalent of teaching a chef how to code and a surfer how to paint. It also eliminates the need to acquire a new employee to fill any skill shortages, since the employee should be able to manage current and future changes in their work position after upskilling. As of today, reskilling the workforce and potential employees is becoming increasingly relevant with the pace of introduction of new technologies and the ever-rising demands of consumerism.

In 2019, PricewaterhouseCoopers; a multi-national company that provides its services to more than 80% of the Global Fortune 500 companies, announced a three-billion-dollar investment on training and development programs for existing employees. Joe Atkinson, the vice-chair, claims that employees not only get to apply their new skills but also learn from one another in the process. In the modern age of technology and automation, an assurance is that while jobs will be both made redundant as well as created, any individual regardless of age will either be required to reskill or upskill one’s expertise. Performance reviews work well to pick areas of work and talent mobility programs allow the employer to receive the possible skills the employee wants to develop and then appropriately place him in an area that will produce the desired results.

A new era of Artificial intelligence (AI) is rising and peeking through the horizon, it is affecting the future of almost every single person and every sector in the market today. AI has acted as the driving force behind all of the new up and coming technologies such as big data, robotics, and the Internet of Things, and it will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. According to Stephen Hawking, a world-renowned theoretical physicist, this can prove to be of ultimate benefit or for our worst. According to Forbes, over 47 percent of employment fall into the "high risk" category, making them the most vulnerable to "automation." The figure may vary, as it is influenced by various elements such as the industry's budget, rules, political attitudes, and professional viewpoints, and, of course, social resistance, according to "The Economist." The “reskilling” of those who have already embarked on their journey into the world of technology will help them not only to come across new ideas, thereby developing R&D, but also to reduce the degree of “vulnerability” that their job may face in the future if they do not equip themselves with the latest trends and stay up to date with the latest happenings in AI town. Hence, organizations are tasked with the need to keep their work force up to date with what would come next.

Automation tools and artificial intelligence constantly change the way products are developed, delivered to consumers which go hand in hand with various changes to the way people work and what is demanded of potential employees when they apply for a job. The big change is already underway with the world well into Industry 4.0, which has changed the way modern work environments see various factors such as producer to consumer interaction, production, division of labor, all owing to the concepts of big data analytics, the internet of things and automation in the workplace. It is paramount that workplaces and prospect employees today are flexible enough to pick up these new tricks of the trade as they come along, lest fall behind [Chakma, Chaijinda 2020].

According to Microsoft, 150 million new digital jobs will be created in the next five years. It may have contributed to the fivefold increase of enterprise learners on Coursera, a well-known online learning site that has garnered a lot of traction in the last year. Professional Certificates, such as Google IT Support, provide employees with the most up-to-date digital abilities. These entry-level Professional Certificates allow anyone without a college diploma or prior experience to obtain the necessary skills for in-demand digital careers totally online in as little as three months. It is no surprise that skill-based education is more successful and purpose-driven, providing students with a defined goal. It's the ideal blend of beliefs, values, and routine to build a strong foundation. It cultivates the art of learning and growth, giving students exactly the kind of tools that they need to gather all the knowledge there is in their chosen sector. The labor market is evolving and one major concern at stake is whether educational institutions are producing the information and skills that companies are seeking, whether the education system provided is capable of producing the requisite knowledge and skills, or whether other institutions (such as the family or the labor market) are more effective at doing so. That is a valid question, but history has time and again shown how difficult and time-consuming it is to make a change as big as this on an institutional and national level and that also does not come with a guarantee especially in a country like India. Instead of waiting till that change comes along, the best thing to do would be to take the responsibility of the situation and to find your own transport to keep up with the rapid advancements. As mentioned before, many people have already found theirs and have signed up on online learning platforms and for self-paced courses on the newer technologies that many companies are moving towards employing. While the credibility of what someone has learnt online might be questionable it is still a valid move, a step towards learning something new which is far better than someone who has stuck to the traditional concepts which he may or may not require in the industry for the role he is looking for. There are two significant changes here: the shifting occupational structure and the growing demand for reskilling and upskilling as a result of technological advancements and flexibility. Rapidly increasing technological change is modifying jobs, workplaces, and occupations. Low-wage workers are often more susceptible to these changes, and labor experience enhancement and development plans are usually not designed to address the difficulties faced by them or meet their needs. Workers can benefit from both user-centric skills retraining organizations and also from progressive guidance on job market opportunities for their current skills and experience [Escobari, Seyal, Meaney, 2019].

As we all know at this point, many employees have had to modify their working habits in order to meet COVID's demands. Definitely there are some people for whom requiring to learn a new technology after being forced to work from home has been a challenge. Such problems may be handled by upskilling, which is excellent news since production will not suffer. The company may carry on as usual and stay competitive in the marketplace, and the individual can maintain his or her job. But perhaps one of the most dramatic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic has been the indefinite numbers of employees who got laid-off initially. At that point in time when the biggest of companies were finding it hard to hire new talent it automatically became extremely important to invest in the workforce that was already there so as to be able to keep up with the industry trends. While there have been numerous discussions on how to use technology to improve workplaces, businesses need the knowledge and experience to make the transition to a distributed workforce model. The situation, however, with the Covid-19 pandemic, has changed and business models like these are no longer a luxury but a must. And any company or industry that does not adhere to this new normal will fall behind at some point if not immediately. Understandable, that for firms attempting to manage their budgets in this climate, training employees who have already settled in may not appear to be a priority, yet the reverse is true. Companies who invest time and resources in training will be better protected during COVID and beyond.

Performance enablement is a crucial tool that allows the overall enhancement of professional competence offered by the employees and helps in the making of a workforce that is agile and adaptable to the rapidly changing industry trends. Workforce training directly or indirectly serves as a chance to explore employee potential to maximize the output from each and every single one. Reskilling and upskilling are not only relevant for the pandemic-situation, but it also makes way for the new and emerging job roles that the world will witness. According to Dell, 85% of the jobs that will be essential roles have not even been invented yet. How to then prepare for a problem without knowing what it is. Although the future is unclear, there is plenty that companies can do to protect themselves and their employees as a precaution. The need to reflect on the kind of skills one possesses and the ones that the industry will require is very important to study if one wants to make a significant contribution to the advancements that are introduced every single day, be it in the field of medical or technology.

When a company invests in human capital the value that the human resource becomes capable of adding increases. Such an investment does not only help the company to become more efficient but also increases employee satisfaction which directly affects their commitment towards what they are expected to do and their loyalty towards the company as it only proves that the company cares about the professional and overall growth of the employees that make up the company. Employees who are happy build a cohesive and developing work environment in which they successfully strive to achieve corporate goals. It is also observed that many employees value career growth and development opportunities more than an increase in salary. In fact, employees are significantly less inclined to move to another company if they are given help for professional development. Although not every employee will welcome additional training, the seeds may be planted early on in their career. They will be less resistive when relevant training is given if you encourage them to identify the skills and abilities they wish to gain. The company will also have an idea of the kind of jobs their workers might be able to do in the future. Most employees prefer to work for companies that invest in their professional growth, and they will not search for other jobs if they believe their present employer meets this requirement. It has been proved time and time again that investing in human capital enhances an organization's Return on Investment. Employees are motivated by monetary and non-monetary incentives in a good investment which makes them want to stay for longer. Moreover, it has been observed that workers who have evolved as part of technological change continue to see increases in wages and occupational scale. [5] Companies must give considerable upskilling and reskilling chances if they are to keep their best professionals, aside from employee benefit necessities such as healthcare, paid time off (PTO), and stock options, as the global business landscape changes fast. Only employees with the most required skill sets both technical and behavioural competencies, can guide organizational performance in the correct direction as business models evolve and technology becomes more prominent.

For generations, it has been seen that people first spend a third of their lives obtaining the college degrees they need to find work. These degrees can be said to be “the stamps” on their white-collar passports that allowed them to continue the second half of their adventure. This suggests that the nature of work that people pursue, as well as the skills and knowledge necessary to make that happen, remains unaltered for the rest of their lives which is no longer the case. While parents of people who are currently in their 40s, 50s even, have had parents who held on to one job for the rest of their life and that worked out just fine for them, the same is not true for the generations after that. All of the technological changes especially are proof that if one does not adapt to the new normal, he will most likely have to step out otherwise he will be causing hindrance to the growth of the company as well as those around. The COVID-19 slump provides enough incentive to act in large numbers, and to act quickly. While the epidemic has had a disproportionately negative impact, we have observed a link between unemployment rates and educational attainment and with there being new job roles introduced in the market clearly, occupational skills will be more important than academic degrees in the future. As data suggested by the World Economic Forum's Jobs of Tomorrow report of 2020 , there will be a surge in jobs in the big data and Artificial Intelligence economy, as well as new opportunities in the engineering sector, cloud storage and computing, product designing as well as creation. These professions require people with appropriate abilities, which can be learned even if you don't have a college diploma. Skill-based education is no longer a choice, but rather a necessity. Despite the fact that the population is increasing, there is still a significant gap between education and employment. This is called the skills gap, which is basically the difference between the kind of skills that employers need for the employees to possess and the skills that the job seekers or employees actually possess and the only way to overcome that is by reskilling and upskilling. It is important to realize that companies are always on the lookout for candidates who have the requisite skills, and that possessing a degree makes you educated but possessing the skills make you employable. It is also important to remember that only the nature of work is changing as a result of technological advancements. Even while some occupations will become obsolete as a result of technological development, it has the ability to generate many more jobs than it eliminates. The promotion of disruptive technologies associated with the industrial revolution or “Industry 4.0” is reshaping the manufacturing and production line environment, reducing the need for low-skilled activities, and increasing that of high-skilled activities. These trends in the technology sector are affecting the entire employment dynamic right from the job profile to the skills required and expected from the workforce, and adequate training courses are needed to meet the needs for further education and retraining [Pontes, Geraldes, Fernandes, Sakurada, Rasmussen, Christiansen, HafnerZimmermann, Delaney, Leitão, 2021]. The requirement of the hour is continuous learning and upgrading of abilities so that one can sustain and secure their position in the job market by contributing in a way that is significant for growth, economical for the company and personally for the employee. As Alvin Toffler, a very wellknown writer and businessman has rightly put, “The illiterate of the 21st century will not be those who cannot read and write but those who cannot learn, unlearn and relearn”.

***

#### Table of Contents
{: .no_toc}

<ul><li> <a href="/docs/R/Reskilling-and-Upskilling-To-Stay-Relevant-in-Today’s-Industry-1/">
Introduction</a></li><li> <a href="/docs/R/Reskilling-and-Upskilling-To-Stay-Relevant-in-Today’s-Industry-2/">
Three societal trends and their implications </a></li><li> <a href="/docs/R/Reskilling-and-Upskilling-To-Stay-Relevant-in-Today’s-Industry-3/">
Literature Review </a></li><li> <a href="/docs/R/Reskilling-and-Upskilling-To-Stay-Relevant-in-Today’s-Industry-4/">
Conclusion</a></li><li> <a href="/docs/R/Reskilling-and-Upskilling-To-Stay-Relevant-in-Today’s-Industry-5/">
References </a></li></ul>

***

</div>
